[JS] Other (Video): Functions (#806)
girlscript/winter-of-contributing: JavaScript/Topics/5.Syntax/6.Functions/Video.md

## Javascript Functions

> 

Reviewer: It should be `# JavaScript Functions`

<iframe  width="560"  height="315"  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/LAl0vdiPVZQ"  title="YouTube video player"  frameborder="0"  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"  allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Transcript

> A **JavaScript function** is a block of code designed to perform a particular task. Its basically dividing you program into different parts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A **JavaScript function** is a block of code designed to perform a particular task. Its basically dividing your program into different functional components.
```

Now a function looks like this..  
Wait.. lets break it into different parts first

```javascript
function myFunction(p1, p2) {
    return p1 * p2; // The function returns the product of p1 and p2
}
```
But before learning functions, lets learn about **scope**.

<hr>

### Scope

The scope is basically the availability of your code.  
Let’s see by an example

``` javascript
if (true) {
    const a = 2;
}
```

> console.log(a); //ReferenceError

Reviewer 2: Write full reference error text

Because (**if**) block creates a scope for `a` and `a` can be used within that scope only.

You are free to access the variable within its scope , but a variable cannot

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
aren't these 2 lines are combined?

## Javascript Functions

<iframe  width="560"  height="315"  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/LAl0vdiPVZQ"  title="YouTube video player"  frameborder="0"  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"  allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Transcript

A **JavaScript function** is a block of code designed to perform a particular task. Its basically dividing you program into different parts.

Now a function looks like this..  
Wait.. lets break it into different parts first

> ```javascript
> function myFunction(p1, p2) {
>     return p1 * p2; // The function returns the product of p1 and p2
> }
> 
> But before learning functions, lets learn about **scope**.
> 
> <hr>
> 
> ### Scope
> 
> The scope is basically the availability of your code.  
> Let’s see by an example
> 
> ``` javascript
> if (true) {
>     const a = 2;
> }
> 
> console.log(a); //ReferenceError
> 
> This time javascript throws an error. Why is it so?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```javascript
function myFunction(p1, p2) {
    return p1 * p2; // The function returns the product of p1 and p2
}

But before learning functions, lets learn about **scope**.

<hr>

### Scope

The scope is basically the availability of your code.  
Let’s see by an example

``` javascript
if (true) {
    const a = 2;
}

console.log(a); //ReferenceError
```

This time javascript throws an error. Why is it so?
```

You forgot to turn off the code-block.

Because (**if**) block creates a scope for `a` and `a` can be used within that scope only.

You are free to access the variable within its scope , but a variable cannot

be accessed outside its scope.

<hr>

  
Now lets go back to our function example:

  
```javascript
function myFunction(p1, p2) {
    return p1 * p2; // The function returns the product of p1 and p2
}
```
Here the myFunction block creates scope of p1 and p2. Which now gets us to a point which is lifetime of function parameters.

You already know this answer now

Scope of the parameters last between these to curly braces of the function

Means you can access them inside the function but not outside it

Lets write our first function that prints the sum of two elements :

```javascript
function sum(a,b) {
	c = a+b
	console.log(c);
}

sum(10,12);

<hr>

Lets now look at different types of functions:

**Anonymous Functions**

 - As the name suggests its anonymous and it doesn’t have a name to it.

```javascript
const show = function(){
	console.log("Anonymouse Function");
}
	
show();

> 

Reviewer 3: Here too.

**Named/Generator function**

 - This is useful when we have to call it many times and pass different
       values to it

```javascript
function subtract(num1, num2) {
	return num1 - num2;
}

> **Arrow Functions**

Reviewer 3: Same here.

## Javascript Functions

<iframe  width="560"  height="315"  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/LAl0vdiPVZQ"  title="YouTube video player"  frameborder="0"  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"  allowfullscreen></iframe>

**Created by :** [Sarfraz Alam](https://github.com/Sarfraz-droid)

## Transcript

A **JavaScript function** is a block of code designed to perform a particular task. Its basically dividing you program into different parts.

Now a function looks like this..  
Wait.. lets break it into different parts first

> ```javascript
> function myFunction(p1, p2) {
> 
> return p1 * p2; // The function returns the product of p1 and p2
> 
> }
> ```

Reviewer 3: Please indent and not use not-needed whitespace.
```suggestion
```javascript
function myFunction(p1, p2) {
    return p1 * p2; // The function returns the product of p1 and p2
}
```
```

But before learning functions, lets learn about **scope**.

<hr>

### Scope

The scope is basically the availability of your code.  
Let’s see by an example

> ``` javascript
> 
> if (true) {
> 
> const a = 2;
> 
> }
> 
> console.log(a); //ReferenceError
> 
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
``` javascript
if (true) {
    const a = 2;
}

console.log(a); //ReferenceError
```
```

This time javascript throws an error. Why is it so?

Because (**if**) block creates a scope for `a` and `a` can be used within that scope only.

You are free to access the variable within its scope , but a variable cannot

be accessed outside its scope.

<hr>

  
Now lets go back to our function example:

  

> ```javascript
> function myFunction(p1, p2) {
> 
> return p1 * p2; // The function returns the product of p1 and p2
> 
> }

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```javascript
function myFunction(p1, p2) {
    return p1 * p2; // The function returns the product of p1 and p2
}
```

```
Here the myFunction block creates scope of p1 and p2. Which now gets us to a point which is lifetime of function parameters.

You already know this answer now

Scope of the parameters last between these to curly braces of the function

Means you can access them inside the function but not outside it

Lets write our first function that prints the sum of two elements :

> ```javascript
> 	function sum(a,b)
> 	{
> 		c = a+b
> 		console.log(c);
> 	}
> 
> 	sum(10,12);
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```javascript
function sum(a,b) {
	c = a+b
	console.log(c);
}

sum(10,12);
```
```

<hr>

Lets now look at different types of functions:

**Anonymous Functions**

 - As the name suggests its anonymous and it doesn’t have a name to it.

> ```javascript
> 	const show = function(){
> 		console.log("Anonymouse Function");
> 	}
> 	
> 	show();
> 	
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```javascript
const show = function(){
	console.log("Anonymouse Function");
}
	
show();
```
```

**Named/Generator function**

 - This is useful when we have to call it many times and pass different
       values to it

> ```javascript
> function subtract(num1, num2)
> {
> 	return num1 - num2;
> }
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```javascript
function subtract(num1, num2) {
	return num1 - num2;
}
```
```
